The Project Gutenberg eBook of Memory, by Theodore Sturgeon

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Memory

Author: Theodore Sturgeon

Release Date: January 7, 2023 [eBook #69733]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net.

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MEMORY ***





                                MEMORY

                               A NOVELET

                         By THEODORE STURGEON

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                 Thrilling Wonder Stories August 1948.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




                               CHAPTER I

                           _Trouble on Mars_


Jeremy Jedd stood in the igneous dust of the spaceport margin, staring
into the sky and shading his eyes with his arm. Occasionally he checked
the time by his ristkron, shaking it to make sure it was wound, craning
back toward the hunched Customs House and the great clock. The sign
there announced placidly that the _Pinnacle_ had reported, was overdue,
and would discharge passengers at Gate Three.

Jeremy shook his head and took the letter from Mars out of his pocket
again. Slowly he unfolded it and read, in the manner of a man checking
his mnemonics. He was certainly familiar enough with it, after so much
re-reading. The letter said:

    You must have heard by this time that General Export has installed
    a fabricating plant here, just outside Fort Wargod. It cost them
    plenty in time and money to get it set up--actually most of it was
    shipped as hand luggage because of the shipping space situation.

    Like a lot of other people, I thought it was a foolish move, because
    the finished piping they could have shipped in the space is at such
    a premium on Mars, and because their plant is going to require
    power--a hard thing to get here. I didn't worry too much, though.
    Why should we care what our competitors do with their money?

    But here's the joker. In spite of the fact that the plant is small
    and comparatively crude, it will fabricate pipe. And the material is
    plastic, chum, and they can now ship it in sheets! I don't have to
    tell you what that means to us. We only got our cargo-space
    contracts from General Export because the Government okayed our
    shipping system--nesting the smaller diameters of pipe inside the
    larger ones. Genex's own pipe is shipped that way now, too. The
    idea isn't patentable.

    So unless we find a patentable way to ship pipe in less space,
    finished, than Genex is taking for their sheet-stock, we're done,
    brother--wiped out. Genex means to get everything in the Colonial
    System--you know that. They have all the ships now, and most of the
    goods and services. I'm afraid we're going on the long list of small
    operators who have tried to buck them.

Jeremy lowered the letter and rubbed his eyes again. They ached. Since
he had received it a week ago, he hadn't slept much. Supplying pipe
for the Mars project was work enough without these long nights in the
laboratory trying to figure a way out of this spot. Everything he and
Hal had in the world was in this deal. They had worked together ever
since they left school, right up until the time Hal went up to handle
the Mars end.

Fervently he wished it were the other way around. If Hal were here,
he'd dope out something. He had always been the real brains of Jedd &
Jedd. And as a matter of fact, Hal already had doped out something.
What an irony! Whatever his process or system was, he couldn't write it
or wire it. General Export carried the mails too, and if they wanted to
find something out, it would be only too easy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jeremy looked up again. There was a growing, gleaming dot in the sky.
He glanced at the building. Near it, men were manning the heatproof
launch. He turned back to the letter, to read the cryptic part about
Phyllis Exeter:

    I know a way to whip this, bud. I'm not telling you about it in a
    letter--you know why. I'm hoping and praying that you'll figure it
    out yourself. The new hauling contracts are coming up, and
    priorities for shipping space go to the pipe company that can pack
    the most in. My process is very simple, really. It's nothing that
    Budgie couldn't have told you. You have three weeks to figure it
    out after you get this note, and don't forget it takes ten days to
    file a patent application.

    And in connection with this idea, Phyllis Exeter is due to arrive
    on the _Pinnacle_. I'd like you to meet her when the rocket-ship
    docks. She really has what it takes. I got quite chummy with her
    while she was out here in Thor City. She'll probably have a lot to
    say about it. She'll have a lot to say, period. She talks more
    than Budgie. Be good, little man.

Jeremy's brows matted together as he folded the note and put it away.
There was more than met the eye in those last two paragraphs--much
more. He got some of it. "Be good, little man." And the references to
Budgie--he wasn't too sure, but he had the idea they weren't in there
for the purpose of using up ink. And the specific mention of Phyllis
Exeter and her arrival. Now, _that_ was something.

If Hal wanted to be absolutely positive Phyllis Exeter would see him,
he'd sure picked the right way. Just that line in the letter would be
enough to have Phyllis hunt him up anywhere on Earth, even if he hid.
General Export carried the mails. But why Phyllis? After all, Hal and
Phyllis had been--He shrugged. If Hal wanted to throw them together
again, all right. He began to get the old, familiar feeling, just
thinking about it.

From overhead came the blow-torch susurrus of the _Pinnacle's_ braking
and hovering jets. Down she came on her bed of fire, until she
hesitated at five thousand feet. He distinctly heard the sudden shift
to cold-jets, and in another minute the dust-cloud was piled up to
receive her.

Jeremy stepped into the waiting room of Number Three Gate, just
avoiding the sudden angry gusts of dust-laden air. He shouldered past
the chattering crowd inside and got to a port, which was covered with
a disc of transparent plastic whirling at high speed to afford clear
vision through the mucky dust which hurtled so violently about the
building. From the spaceport central, the little heatproof drifted
toward the grounding liner, waiting its chance to settle on the
huge hull and sink its extensible airlock into the monster like an
ovipositor.

Fifteen minutes later the heatproof whickered slowly down to the roof
of the gate building. The crowd pressed toward the elevators and was
shunted back by the page-boys and officials. Jeremy stood on the
fringes, trying to look indifferent and doing a very poor job of it.

The first load came down. A heavy-set man with a dark, rocky face. A
quick, slender, cold-eyed man. These two stood aside and let a woman
with two children and an aged couple pass them. And then Phyllis
stepped out.

He wondered again, looking at her, what a man would have to do to
ruffle that sleekness, to crumple the brilliant mask she seemed to
wear. Throw a kiss or a fist in that face, and there would be little
difference. Her hair was soft, and iridescent green, now. She smoked
with a long holder, and the smoke matched her hair. Her voice was as
lustrous, as colorful as ever, when she saw him.

"Jeremy!" she said. "Jeremy Jedd! How are you, darling?"

[Illustration: "Jeremy Jedd!" Phyllis said, "How are you, darling?"]

"Don't call me darling," he said.

"Oh, these people won't think anything of me that they don't think
already," she said.

"They might think it of me," he said grimly. He took her arm, while she
laughed as if trying to find out whether she could. She could.

"Come on," he said. "I need a drink. Before, I just wanted one."

She hung back and pouted. "You seem quite sure I'll come."

"You've been reading my mail!" he quipped grimly. She stopped hanging
back. They moved toward the door and down the short path to the Customs
House. Jeremy glanced back. The two men he had noticed at the elevators
were following them. He gestured slightly with his head. "Yours?"

She shrugged. "Oh, you know how it is."

"No," he said, "I don't. Not altogether. But I'll learn the rest of it."

       *       *       *       *       *

She laughed again, and hugged his elbow close to her body. "Jeremy,"
she said cozily, "do you still feel the same way about me?"

He glanced down into her wide gray-green eyes. "Yup. Always will, I
guess. Worse luck."

"Worse luck?"

"It gets in my hair," he grumbled. "When I think of all the time I've
spent thinking about you when I could've been making pipe--"

"That's what I like about you," she flashed. "You make a person feel so
welcome." She released his arm. "What makes you think you can treat me
like that?"

"Several things. They all add up to the fact that you won't walk away
from me until you find out what you think I know about stowing pipe. No
matter what I say or do to you, you'll tag right along."

"All right," she said, in quite a new, matter-of-fact voice. "I'd just
as soon play that way then. All the cards face up, and such sordidness.
It could have been pleasant, too."

"Not with me. Not with you and me."

"That's what I meant."

Inside the building they turned to the right elevator bank and dropped
to the cafeteria two levels below. There was no conversation in the
elevator due to the silent presence of the two men who had followed
them from the gatehouse. Jeremy glared at them, but the younger man
refused to catch his eye and stared at the ceiling, whistling softly.
The other man gazed at Phyllis's feet.

"I think," Jeremy said, as they emerged, "that you have hired these
pugs just to bolster your ego. You'll have men following you whatever
you have to do."

"It isn't necessary to hire them for that," she said coldly. "I'm sorry
you find this unpleasant, Jeremy. But please don't make it any more so
than you have to. Strangely enough, there are lots of places I'd rather
be than with you. Alone, for example."

"You know," he said, as he politely pulled out a chair for her, "I
like you like this. I mean, I could if I tried. This is the first time
I have ever seen you when you weren't swinging the figurative female
lasso round and round."

"Compliments from you are more unpleasant than anything else could be.
Light the menu, will you?"

He touched the stud that illuminated the menu screen. She studied it
for a moment, and then dialed the code numbers of the items she wanted.
Jeremy studied her as she did so.

She was an amazing girl, he admitted grudgingly. How she looked, what
she did, what she was--amazing. Her smooth brow was crinkled a bit
now, between the eyes. She used to look like that in college once in
a while. It generally signified that she was out of her depth, and it
also meant that she was about to do something about it, like flapping
her eyelids at a vulnerable professor, or cribbing from someone else's
paper.




                              CHAPTER II

                         _Bulldozer Treatment_


Frowning, Jeremy studied Phyllis for several minutes more. Then he
spoke.

"Tell me something," he said. "Exactly how was this thing supposed to
go?"

"I don't know what you mean."

His voice tuned itself to his strained patience. "I mean, what was
supposed to happen here? You would meet me at the gate, or you would
hunt me up, and then what?"

"You seem to know everything. Answer your own questions."

"All right. You were going to overcome my time-honored distaste of
you and give me the business--most likely the remorse angle. The
time you pulled that factory-lease out from under us for the benefit
of a cosmetic factory--and General Export, who were starting in the
pipe business--you are sorry about that. The time Hal fell for Dolly
Holleson and you told her so many lies about him that she up and
married somebody else--you're sorry about that too. The time you--"
His voice got thick--"accepted my ring, all of my grand old 'forgive
and forget' attitude, and a third of our company stock, only to turn
the stock over to Genex and tell me to go fly it--that was an awful
misunderstanding!

"You know, Phyl, if I had known when I gave you the stock that Hal had
phonied up the stock certificate, I'd have killed him, I think. He took
the chance. Felt that if you were on the up-and-up he could straighten
out the stock later. If you weren't--well, nothing would be lost but a
little peace of mind. Mine." He breathed very deeply, once. "Anyhow,
Hal thinks you're poison, and I think you're poison, and I don't know
what in the universe you think you are, but certainly it isn't anything
that will get a new pipe-stowage process out of me."

"You really slug when you start, don't you?" she whispered. He had
never seen her eyes so big, nor her face so white. "And you don't mind
lowering your sights, to mix a metaphor."

"I adjust to the most obvious target," he said bluntly. "Why don't you
get sore? Why don't you leave?"

Slowly, with a small, tragic smile, she rose. "Watch," she said.

She turned toward the door. At a far table, a man rose and sauntered
toward the exit. Behind Jeremy, there was a scraping of chairs on the
glossy flooring, and the two men who had followed her from the ship
went past.

The man at the door, a suave-looking individual, lean and
white-templed, folded his arms and leaned against the wall just out of
range of the photocell which opened the door. When Phyllis drew abreast
he spoke softly to her. She stopped and shook her head. He smiled
then, and shook his. She bit her lip, lowered her head a little and
moved toward the door again. So smoothly that it did not seem swift at
all, he blocked her.

The other two men reached them, greeted her effusively, took an arm
each and led her back toward their table, talking and laughing. When
they neared Jeremy's place, they released her and went back to their
own table, leaving her standing alone, staring at Jeremy with angry and
terrified eyes. The whole thing was done so smoothly that no occupant
of the restaurant seemed to notice.

"I have just seen something very lovely," said Jeremy happily. "A
pushing-around with you involved, where you are getting pushed for a
change. Now come and sit down and tell me all about it in a sisterly
fashion."

She came. Again he was struck with the difference in her, the air of
being out of her depth. She sank into her chair, her eyes averted from
his. She put her hands tight together on the table, but they would not
stop shaking. She volunteered nothing.

He reached over the centerpiece of the table and opened the
cold-chamber on her side, removing the drink she had ordered. Pushing
it across to her, he said gently:

"Gulp some of that and for once in your life give me a straight story.
Whose side are you on besides your own? How did it happen? And why do
these dawn-men take such an interest in leaving you alone, providing
it's with me?"

"Everything's gone wrong. You--you know too much, Jeremy. And you don't
know enough. All right, I'll tell you. Telling you won't help me--I
mean, you won't help me, no matter what. I thought I could get what I
wanted out of you without your ever knowing that they--that I--"

"That they have the heat on you," supplemented Jeremy. "Source, Genex.
Temperature, high." He shook his head wonderingly. "That's always been
the trouble with you, Phyl. So self-sufficient. Never asked anyone for
help in your life. There was always a way out, generally paved with
somebody's face. I gather that Genex is as wise to you as I am."

       *       *       *       *       *

She nodded, with a submissiveness which wrung something within him. His
hand went out toward her. He drew it back without touching her.

He said, "Talk, now."

"I was doing all right," she said in a low voice. "I pulled lots
of--of deals for General Export. They want everything. They want the
entire Colonial trade--ships, supplies, personnel, everything. They're
getting it, too, any and every way they can. They'll have Mars when
they're through."

"Then what? They're still under government authority."

"Oh, it's long-range, Jeremy. You remember your history. There's a
colonial phase, after discovery and exploration. Colonizing is a job in
itself--development doesn't really set in for quite a while. Nowadays,
of course, the whole process is enormously speeded up. You know the
potentialities of Mars. Uranium, iron, diamond-coal and drugs. Why,
it's an unlimited opportunity for whoever controls it. For perhaps two
generations, Mars will look to Earth for government and guidance. But
then there will be patriots, Jeremy. Earth will find herself with a
competitor instead of a dominion. And the way that competitor will be
run will gradually swing the direction of control the other way--or
else. Genex isn't out after a world. Genex wants two worlds--the
system--the galaxy, if you like. But it will be for Genex and its
heirs; it won't be for the little guy."

Jeremy sat back and stared at her, amazed. "You figured all that out
yourself? I can't believe it. No, by heaven, I don't believe it. Whom
are you quoting?"

"Hal Jedd," she said with an effort.

"Well, well, well!" He took out Hal's letter and opened it. Her eyes
darted to it, to his face, and down again. "Don't play," Jeremy said
grimly. "I know you've seen this. You and every stooge Genex could put
on it." He glanced through the letter, speared a sentence with his
finger, and read aloud: "'Phyllis Exeter due. I got quite chummy with
her while she was out here in Thor City.'"

"That's what put me in this spot," she said with sudden bitterness.
"Yes, I saw him. Lots. The word got around that he had developed
something radical in the line of pipe stowage. He has a suitcase-size
lab back of his office, you know. Well, I was put on it."

"You volunteered--isn't that more like it? You said, 'Let me at the
sucker. I've been able to wind him and his dopey brother around my
finger since we were kids; and besides, I have a little score to
settle. They're one up on me.' That right?"

She almost laughed. "I didn't call him a sucker," she said faintly.
She took a swallow of her drink. "Take care of the steak, will you,
Jeremy? I'm hungry."

Jeremy took the raw steak out of the cold compartment. It was
tenderized and seasoned. He slid it into the induction-heater.

"How do you like it?" he asked.

"Seared and rare," she answered.

He adjusted the controls and closed the drawer, while she continued.

"I saw a lot of Hal. He got under my skin, Jeremy. Not anything about
him personally--I don't go for his type. These scholarly boys leave me
cold. I like big men with blond hair, strong enough to smack a gal down
when she deserves it, or even to keep their hands off her. And maybe
with a little cleft in a square jaw--"

Unconsciously fingering just such a concavity on his chin, Jeremy threw
back his blond head and snapped, "Baloney to you and your shopping
lists! Go on with the yarn. What did get under your skin?"

"What he had to say about Genex. I don't know--maybe I never bothered
to take it apart before. Maybe my paychecks and bonuses kept me from
thinking. Whatever it was that happened, it happened so gradually
that I didn't notice it. But the things he said about long-range
thinking--well, here I was on the inside and knowing even more about
what went with Genex than he did. The more I looked at it, the less I
liked it. Maybe I should have left Hal alone. Maybe I should have tuned
him out while he talked. But, as I said before, he had me before I knew
what was happening."

       *       *       *       *       *

Jeremy smiled. "Hal's like that. He has a theory that a quiet voice
in a noisy room is louder than a shout. He thinks quietly and loud
that way too." The centerpiece chimed softly and the drawer slid out.
Jeremy took the plate-tongs from the rack and lifted the steak and its
perfectly cooked side-dishes over to Phyllis.

"Thanks. Well, I met a boy at Fort Wargod. A blue-eyed innocent of a
cadet. Maybe it was moonlight. Moonlight's twice as tricky on Mars, you
know. Maybe it's because I'm a little crazy, and can't resist trying
things out on people. Well, this kid needed to be impressed worse than
anyone I ever met. Before I knew it we were on the parapet looking
at Earth, hanging out there so bright and blue, and I was spilling
all this stuff about colonies, dominions, and the patriotism of the
second-generation Martian. Loose talk. Really, I don't know how much of
it I believed myself."

She shook herself suddenly, all over, as if trying to wriggle out of
something tight and hot. Pulling herself together with an effort, she
cut into her steak busily.

"Well," she said after she had swallowed the first bite, "my blue-eyed
babe in the woods turned out to be a Genex man, put there for the
specific purpose of finding out where my indoctrination stood."

Jeremy roared with laughter, a great cruel burst of it. He cut it
off instantly and leaned forward. "So it happened to you," he said
viciously. "I'm mighty glad to hear it. Some sweet and gentle character
made you open up your heart, did he? Tell me something, slicker--did
you try to give him some of your company's stock?"

This hit home. In sudden anger she stopped eating and cursed Jeremy.
Then all at once, she smiled and shrugged. It was an odd little
gesture, and the resignation in it made that something within him
flinch again. Phyllis had tried so hard, for so long, to cover up that
soft, lost part of her. She had succeeded so well, until now. She was
such a magnificent product of her own determinations, and it hurt him
to see such a product spoiled, even though he hated everything it
represented. So he said, "I'm sorry," and to his surprise, the words
tasted good in his mouth.

"So here I am," she said in a low voice. "I failed with Hal, as I
should have expected. I got quite a carpeting for it, and for that
business with the cadet. And then Hal wrote that letter. Genex carries
the mails. Every big brain in the place, and a lot of little ones, has
been racking over it ever since. And they put me on to you. This is
supposed to be my last chance--my double or nothing play. If I get that
process from you, I get back where I was. On probation, of course, but
I'll string along with Genex. If I fail, I'm done. Outside of Genex
there isn't much doing, and I don't doubt that I'm pretty thoroughly
blacklisted."

"You are," he said flatly. "I get the score now. These plugs around
here are supposed to keep you with me until you get the info. _Hmm._
Suppose I leave?"

"I go with you. I keep after you, I catch up with you some way, I keep
trying."

"How long is this supposed to go on?"

"Until I get the process. Or until Genex gets the pipe hauling
contract from the Government. In which case I'm automatically out."

"Suppose you quit trying?"

"Then I'm out, as of that moment."

"In other words, your fate is in my hands, to coin a phrase."

"I guess it is, Jeremy." And to his utter astonishment, she began to
cry with her mouth open. For such an accomplished actress, she did it
very badly indeed. Her heart was in it.

Jeremy sat back and watched her, his brain racing. Hal's letter had
taken on a few new meanings, but not enough. "Be good, little man." The
rest of that old routine was, "And if you can't be good, be careful."
Well, maybe he could have been more careful, but Phyllis seemed to
have responded well enough to the bulldozer treatment. Jeremy knew
what was the matter with her. She was scared. She had lived by her not
inconsiderable wits for a long time, and the clear picture of the end
of the line she was facing was a frightening one.

But what about the process? Now it was up to Jeremy to figure it out!




                              CHAPTER III

                           _Plastic Compact_


Hal had done his astute best to explain the process to Jeremy Jedd in
that letter. Somewhere in that letter, somewhere in the odd fact of
Phyllis's being here--in these three places were components of the
process.

She was quieter now.

"Sorry," she sniffled. "I'm in a bad way, I guess. Do you know why I
was crying? It was because you didn't get up and leave when I told you
all this. You will help me, Jeremy? You will?"

"Help you? How can I?"

"Tell me the process." She leaned closer, excitedly. "Or tell me
something almost as good as your process, but better than what Genex
has."

"You're very flattering." She really thought he had the process, then.
Be good, little man. He'd have to be. But _good_. "I gather Genex has
set up a welding plant on Mars. Why are they worried?"

"Power," she answered. "There are only two power-piles on Mars, and
they're worked to the limit. They're so heavy, with the shielding
and all. Shipping space is so scarce, with foodstuffs, development
equipment and so on, that piles aren't set up until they are absolutely
essential. Power is rationed, and it is costing Genex a fortune for
the piddling amount they need to process sheet-stock into pipe. Their
advantage, of course, is to procure the space for themselves and get
rid of one more independent outfit."

"Uh-huh. The fight is really over a much bigger thing than pipe.
_Hmm._ And the outfit that finds a way to ship pipe in less space than
sheet-stock, gets the contract and for once has a solid footing against
the corporation's expansion."

"But how can you do it, Jeremy? How can you possibly ship pipe in less
space than stacks of plastic sheet?"

He smiled. "You really think I'll tell you, don't you? I have no reason
to trust you. You have thrown yourself on my mercy, more or less,
and given me the choice of saving your skin--your career, anyway--I
suppose you call it that--at the risk of having you hand the process to
Genex and not only kill off Jedd and Jedd but also kill the brightest
chance in fifty years of checking the monopoly. Nope. I'm telling you
nothing." I wish someone would tell me, he added to himself.

"But you still stick around," she said thoughtfully. "You met me at the
spaceport, you don't throw me to the wolves when you have a chance,
you--why, you don't know the process yourself!"

"On the contrary. I'm just sitting here cruelly amusing myself. I've
waited years to see you crawl."

"I'm not going to listen to you," she said tightly. "I think I'm right.
The only thing I can do is to help you to figure it out. That letter.
You. Me. The process is right here at this table, if we can only find
out how to put it together."

"This is going to be very entertaining," said Jeremy, far more jovially
than he felt. How could this girl, who in the long run operated so
stupidly, be so incredibly sharp in detail? "Where would you start?"

"With the letter," she said promptly. She closed her eyes and her lips
moved. It dawned on him that she had thoroughly memorized the letter.
She opened her eyes wide and asked, "Who is Budgie?"

"A childhood companion," he said, a little taken aback.

"That's a lie. Every fairly close associate you have ever had in your
life has been checked."

Jeremy's mouth slowly opened. Then he brought a hand crashing down on
the table and bellowed with laughter.

"Do you mean to tell me," he gasped, "that Genex's investigators
have been gravely looking through lists of my schoolmates, cousins,
bartenders and dates looking for _Budgie_?"

"We--they tried everything," she said, and added, "Stop that silly
cackling. Who was it?"

He held up an irritating forefinger. "Ah-ah! Manners, now. Let us act
like ladies and gentlemen, chicken, or I send you to the salt mines."

"I'm sorry," she said angrily. He set his mouth. "I'm sorry," she said
with a great deal more sincerity.

"Better," he said. "Now then, I don't think it'll hurt to tell you.
Budgie was a parakeet we used to have. He was around very nearly twenty
years. We gave him a fine funeral."

       *       *       *       *       *

The girl stared at him, her eyes glittering with disbelief.

"And yet, according to that letter, the process is nothing Budgie
couldn't have told you. Jeremy, I don't believe you. Who was Budgie?"

"So help me, the only Budgie I ever knew was that bird. He swore like a
soybean farmer in a urea factory, he did. We called him Budgie because
he was a budgerigar, or, to you, a Zebra Parakeet. A budgerigar is the
talkingest bird that ever lived."

"What?" she said in disgust. "A creature with memory and no brains
could tell you what the process is?" Jeremy started, and she asked,
"What's the matter? Have a rush of brains to the head?"

While he fumbled for an answer, she leaned back with narrowed eyes.
"I came awfully close to it that time, didn't I? Come clean, Jeremy.
You've known about the process ever since you were a kid, now, haven't
you?"

"You've got it," he mumbled. She's got it? Who's got what? He clapped
his hand to his head. "Memory without brains. That's me."

They stared at each other. "If only I knew a little more about
plastics," she breathed. "Or even about your brother. I'll bet if I
knew as much about the way Hal's mind works as you do, I could sit
right down and write that process out."

Jeremy stared at her and knew she told the truth. His was a quick
mind as well as an encyclopedic one, but she was his master at quick
intuitive reasoning. A wild plan flitted through his mind--to leap up
and rush out, to draw an attack from one of the Genex men who waited
patiently for Phyllis to do her work; to prefer charges against the
corporation, perhaps. But he rejected it instantly.

They were too clever for that. They would let him go. One of their
plastics engineers would work with Phyllis until some hunch she had
gotten made sense to him. Then what? Well, either he would figure it
out in time or he wouldn't. If not, he was sunk. If so, Genex would
so radically underbid his pipe to drive him out that he would be sunk
anyway.

"_Hal!_" The name slipped from his lips, so profound was his sudden
wish for his brother. Hal could set him straight with a word, if only
he could send the word.

"Me too," whispered Phyllis. "If only I could see Hal once, only for
a minute, I'll bet I could--" Suddenly she dived into her handbag,
clawing out a pot-pourri of feminine conglomerata. "Where is it? Where
is--oh--here." She held a rectangular piece of plastic in her hand. It
was blue, smooth, heavy.

"What's that?"

"Just a compact. A lighter. A torch. One of those things. But Hal gave
it to me. And I'm just mystic enough to think it'll help me think.
He had his hands on it. Didn't you know that all women--even modern
women--are witches?" She closed her eyes, clutching the compact,
frowning in concentration.

Staring at her, Jeremy frowned too, and thought harder than ever in his
life before. Something about memory without brains. Something--and then
a line in the letter swam before his mind's eye.

    I'd like you to meet her when the rocket-ship docks. She really has
    what it takes.

"Give me that," he spat, and snatched it roughly out of her grasp.
Instinctively, she reached for it. He batted her hand out of the way,
hard. She sat on the edge of her chair, her nostrils dilated, rubbing
her hand and watching him like a cat.

He turned it over and over, shook it, smelled it, felt it. He opened
it, shook out the tinted powders, cracked the mirror retainer with
his thumb and slid the glass out. There was nothing unusual about the
compact. A little expensive, perhaps, but not unique at all. There was
no trademark.

"Where did Hal get this?"

"He didn't say. Bought it, perhaps. Maybe he made it. He has a little
outfit. Give it back to me!"

"I will not." Jeremy fell to studying it again.

"Jereee," she said sweetly.

       *       *       *       *       *

He looked up. She was her old self. She was erect and beautiful and the
color was back in her cheeks. Somewhere in a side corner of his mind,
he deeply regretted the fact that he admired her so much. She put out
her hand. "Give."

"Nope."

She glanced around. "It's evidence. I've been robbed. The property was
forcibly taken from me by that man, officer," she said, mimicking a
sweet, wronged young thing. "There we were, sitting peacefully over a
drink and a snack, when he went berserk and took it away from me and
began tearing it apart." Her face went cold and direct again. "Would
you tell the nice policeman exactly _why_ you wanted to keep it,
Jeremy?"

"Not while Genex and the police get along so nicely," he said
grudgingly. "Okay. I'm open to compromise. You don't know the
significance of this piece of plastic. You just might be wrong. If
Genex's plastics division can't find out anything about it, you're away
out of luck."

"Oh," she said. She glanced around at the Genex watchdogs and shivered.
"What's your proposition?"

"I have to find out something more. Just what, I'm not sure. Now
think carefully. Exactly what do you remember Hal's saying about this
compact?"

"Why, he never said anything, much. Just some philosophical quip about
women, about me and plastics. I don't remember it exactly."

"Try."

"It was--it was something like this." She paused, and he knew she was
running over and over it in her mind, poking and prodding at it for
hidden meanings. Finally she shrugged, and quoted, "'I like giving
you plastics, Phyl. Plastics are an analogical approach to women, and
some of 'em come pretty close. Some day maybe we'll all be familiar
with a plastic that will react differently under the same stimulus, the
way you do. Laughter this time, tears the next, whichever seems to be
expected.' I didn't think it was very flattering."

Jeremy stared at her, comprehension sparking, flaming, coruscating in
his brain. He said hoarsely:

"Give me the compact. I've got to get it to a lab."

"No," she said firmly. She took it out of his unwilling hands.
"Frankly, I don't know what you've figured out. But I will, if I kick
it around long enough. If I can't, I know those who can. Well," she
purred, arching her body, "I'd better run along, Jerry darling. Thank
you _so_ much for everything."

The hand that closed on her wrist seemed to be made of beryl steel.
"Don't you move," Jeremy said. He said it in a way which kept her from
moving. "You can't take that chance. You don't know enough. If you take
that away, I'll never know either, and I'd see both of us dead first.
I'll make a bargain. Once more. I must make a test on that compact. I
can do it right here. Let me do it. You can watch. Whatever happens,
your description will be enough for a plastics engineer. It will give
us both a break. And if there really is a secret there, you'll have a
chance of getting what you want. You'll _know_. You don't know now--you
only guess."

It was a long time before she nodded her head.

When she did, he took the compact and, with his knife, scraped off a
shaving and dropped it into the ash tray. He took a plate-handler from
the warm rack and touched the shaving. Then he put his cigarette to it.
Then he held it with the plate-handler and held it in the flame of his
cigarette lighter. Part of it burned. He sniffed the smoke, nodded, and
set the temperature regulator on the induction-heater.

He dropped the compact in and closed the drawer.

"No!" she shouted. "You're burning it! You've got the process, and
you're destroying it so I won't have a chance!" She lunged for the
drawer. He caught her wrists, transferred them both to one of his
powerful hands, and shook his head.

"Sit tight," he snapped.

       *       *       *       *       *

The centerpiece chimed, and the drawer popped open. Their heads cracked
together painfully as they bent to look inside. Neither noticed the
pain.

In the bottom of the pan lay a twisted piece of blue plastic. It spread
almost all the way across the roomy drawer. It was flat, and followed a
series of regular convolutions. It dawned on both of them at the same
moment what it was.

Script.

As if the plastic itself were the track of a writing-brush, it spelled
the two words:

    I REMEMBER

"That's for me," breathed Phyllis. "And I'm a dope. The memory without
brains--even I know about that phenomenon. Now that I see it done, I
remember a demonstration in school, where a cube was compression-molded
into a spool-shape. When it was heated again, it slumped together and
formed the original cube. A little sloppy, but a cube nevertheless.
With a little refinement, I don't see why extruded pipe shouldn't be
compression-molded into rods, bricks, or book-ends and still come out
pipe when it's heated. Beats sheet-stock welding a mile. Jeremy, my
boy, you may have my melted-up old compact with my blessings. You may
frame it and hang it over your lab bench when you come to work for
Genex, as you must or starve. 'I remember.' I like that."

"You don't remember how badly you needed help, Phyllis," he said
hoarsely. "My help."

"Plastics and women, my boy. Remember?" She rose like a queen, gathered
up her belongings and drifted doorward, beckoning imperiously to the
watchdogs. Ignoring Jeremy Jedd completely, they followed her out.




                              CHAPTER IV

                         _Surprise for Genex_


Abruptly Jeremy came to his senses with an inarticulate, animal noise
and raced to the door. The lithe man with white hair at his temples
stepped in front of him.

"Want something, chum?" he asked softly.

Jeremy raised a hand to sweep the man aside but his eye fell on what
the man was holding in his hand. It was a rectangular leatherette
needle case. Jeremy had seen them before. A touch of the case, a little
pressure on a stud, and you were needled. And the variety of hypos used
was peculiarly horrible.

They stood there, frozen, for a long instant. Then someone passed.

A spaceport guard.

"Guard!" Jeremy rapped, leaping backward. "This man's threatening me.
Needle!"

The guard bobbled a remarkable Adam's apple at them and then strode
toward the white-templed man.

"Give it here, bud."

The man smiled, raised the case, snapped it open and extracted a
cigarette. "A joke, guard. Perfectly harmless."

"Ha-ha!" said the guard with his mouth only. He clicked his lips shut
and looked at Jeremy with one eyebrow raised. "You sure are jumpy,
Blondy," he remarked, and strode off.

Jeremy controlled himself with a prodigious effort and swung on the
older man. "Listen, you--"

The man blew smoke at Jeremy. "Better cool down, son," he said kindly.
"We joke often, but not always. _Hold it!_" he snapped, watching
Jeremy's darkening face. "You can butter me up and down these walls,
but I'm only one of a couple of thousand that you'd have to whip
afterward. Better go on back now and have another drink." And before
Jeremy could move so much as a lip, the man was striding up the
corridor in that way which did not seem to be swift.

Balked, frustrated, furious, Jeremy stood for a while and then turned
back into the restaurant. He slouched back to his table, kicked the
chair out and dropped into it. He could use that plastic-memory stunt
to stow pipe. Sure. And when he thought of the low bid that Genex would
put up against him, his stomach turned over.

He glowered into the heater drawer, where the blue plastic script told
him placidly what he would never forget:

    I REMEMBER

And then he thought of Hal's words to Phyllis.

       *       *       *       *       *

The demonstrations supporting registered bids were made in a public
hearing, in the vast offices of the Shipping Space Priority Board. The
Space Commissioner, an oldster with a snowy lion's mane and the eyes of
an eight-year-old child, had his wattles in his palms and his elbows
on his desk. He was flanked by the featureless protocolloids of his
well-peopled bureau.

In the wide area before him were three groups of people, each hovering
over a tangle of apparatus. Behind them were the rows of seats for
the interested public, one third of the seats occupied. The second
demonstration was in progress. The first demonstrator and his helpers
were dismantling their bulky machine--part brake, part automatic
welder, it had produced several hundred feet of inch-and-a-half pipe
out of a long and compact bale of sheet-stock.

The galleries had regarded the performance as quite impressive, whether
or not they knew that Winfield and Shock, who presented the process,
was a General Export affiliate, brought in to establish a figment of
competition.

General Export's management had shrewdly chosen a presentable
demonstration by a more than presentable demonstrator. She was slender,
poised, clear-eyed, clear-voiced, and her hair was green. She was
saying:

"--and in spite of the question of simultaneous patent application,
General Export will offer this pipe at a lower price per unit shipped
than any competitor could conceivably meet, due to a secret treatment
of the original plastic."

"Due to the secret mistreatment of competition," growled a man in the
gallery, who had once owned a space-line.

       *       *       *       *       *

The demonstrator walked gracefully to a stack of long, slender plastic
rods beside her machine and lifted one. "Mr. Commissioner, this rod
is twelve feet long and one sixteenth of an inch square. As you will
observe, the rod is extremely flexible. Stowage of these rods will
therefore be compact and economical, since rectangular holds are not
necessary. Bundles of these rods will follow the curves, if any, of
the retaining bulkheads, and therefore use every cubic inch of space
economically. I shall now demonstrate the creation of usable seamless
pipe from these rods."

She stepped over to her machine, slid the rod in at one end, and threw
a lever. "This is a very simple heater. On Earth or Mars, particularly
on Mars, it may be adequately operated by sun-mirrors, thereby tapping
no local power-source."

There was a faint hiss. A small motor whined, and a twelve-foot length
of pipe shot out with a dry clatter. She repeated the performance twice
more and then bowed respectfully to the Commissioner, who said:

"Thank you very much, Miss Exeter. Next!"

A clerk sang, "Mr. Jeremy Jedd, of Jedd and Jedd! Process, pipe
stowage, interplanetary!"

Jeremy stood up, ran off the customary courtesies of the applicant, and
then said:

"I am deeply grateful to Miss Exeter for many things. One of these is
her concise and well-presented description of the advantages of General
Export's plastic-memory process. She has saved me much explanation, for
my process is precisely the same. The difference lies in the plastic
treatment before and after the processing you see here. I will say at
the start that as regards price of the rods I am demonstrating, they
cost at least five times as much as those shown by Miss Exeter. I am,
apparently, drastically underbid."

Jeremy had to pause then to duck under the wave of comment that swept
over the huge room. The Commissioner cleared his throat and raised a
forefinger without moving his hand from his chin. A clerk raised a
gavel without moving anything but his arm, and brought it down with a
crash.

"Get on with it," growled the Commissioner. His tone said, If you can't
compete with the other bids, you idiot, why waste my time, or even that
of these thousand-odd other people?

Jeremy stepped to his machine, which was almost a duplicate of the one
Phyllis Exeter had used, and lifted an end of one of his rods. He did
not attempt to lift it all at once; apparently it was quite heavy.

What followed was the same as the previous showing, with one noticeable
exception; the pipe came out in a twenty-foot length. Again the room
buzzed. This time Jeremy held up his hand. "The greater length of the
pipe is an advantage over these other methods, but not the greatest,"
he said calmly. He threw the heater-control over again--

Without loading in another rod!

A twenty-foot length of pipe joined its predecessor.

Again he pulled the control, and again. Each time a twenty-foot pipe
was produced, until six of them lay side by side on the floor. The air
above them shimmered very slightly. They were uniform and perfect.

"Mr. Commissioner, I ask that space for shipment of pipe to Mars be
allotted to my company because the stowage is as compact as any product
on the market, because I can ship approximately nine point three times
as much pipe per cube unit as my nearest competitor, and because I can
deliver pipe per unit length at eleven per cent cheaper than anyone
else on earth! And that in spite of the apparently prohibitively low
bid of Miss Exeter's most altruistic firm. Thank you, gentlemen."

"Just a minute, young man!" said the Commissioner. "You have a most
remarkable process. I--ah--hear comments to the effect that the pipe
was concealed in the machine. Can you give some layman's explanation of
this extraordinary effect?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Jeremy smiled as he glanced at the machine in front of him.

"Certainly, sir. My company, you may remember, secured a portion of the
space allotted to pipe shipments during your last session, by devising
the present method of nesting the smaller diameters of pipe inside the
larger ones--a method which was not patentable, which my competitors
were slow to discover, but quick to copy.

"In the present case, I very much fear that they have repeated their
lack of--if I may say it--logical thoroughness. You see, my pipe is
still nested, one inside the other, six taking the space of one, and
the whole compressed into the rods you see here."

"You nest pipe of the same diameter?" said the Commissioner
incredulously; and that odd, mad, detached part of Jeremy's mind
noticed hilariously that the oldster's bright eyes blinked with
repressed anger.

"Yes sir, I do, in effect. But it is a question of density. The inner
pipe is a condensed plastic--a patented process, by the way. This
plastic, while undergoing the 'memorizing' phenomenon so beautifully
explained by Miss Exeter, restores its original density as well as its
original form. The inner pipe, then, is simply condensed more than the
one which surrounds it, and so on until the six are nested. Then the
whole is compression, molded into rods of precisely the dimensions of
those admirably compact ones produced by General Export.

"Now, when heat treated, the outer pipe returns to its original form
and is automatically ejected from the machine. It has, of course,
pre-heated the next pipe, which pre-heats the one after. It takes,
actually, far less heat per unit length to restore my pipe than it does
to restore the pipe of--ah--any of my competitors. A small advantage,
however, and merely hair-splitting under the circumstances."

"I feel you deserve many congratulations, Mr. Jedd. Purely as a matter
of personal interest, might I ask how you came to discover such a
remarkable effect?"

"Indeed you may, Mr. Commissioner. The process was developed by my
brother on Mars. He enlisted the courtesy and kindness of a messenger
to send me a sample. It was in the form of a compact--a lady's
compact--and when heat treated it separated into a plastic sheet which
formed in script the words 'I remember.'"

Jeremy grinned broadly. "It was some time before I realized that there
was anything more to be learned from the sample, for the words covered
the rest of it. When I put this--this message into my pocket, I saw
the rest of the plastic and, guided by a hint in a rather cryptic
verbal message concerning women and plastics, I again treated the
sample. I got more script. It read, 'Density Two.' Then I knew what
he was driving at. I treated it again and got 'Density Three' and
still again and got"--he smiled--"a length of pipe. After that it was
little trouble for me to analyze the plastic and develop the condensing
treatment--I beg your pardon. I think somebody had better get Miss
Exeter a glass of water...."

They met that evening, and perhaps it was by accident. She was standing
in the shadow near his apartment building when he came home from the
lab.

"Jerry?"

"Phyllis! I--I'm sorry."

"Sorry? That's what you say when you realize you did a wrong. I don't
think you mean that. Isn't it more a kind of--pity?"

He did not deny it. He said, "What can I do for you?"

"I--I need a job now."

He took her hand and drew her into the pale light. Her hand lay in his
like something asleep. "I couldn't give you a job, Phyl."

"Yes, I know, I know. I have never been--faithful. Jerry, I haven't
been faithful to myself."

"I don't understand. You've always--"

"Always thought I could take 'em or leave 'em alone. Not so, Jeremy."

"Oh," he said. "Oh, that." He squeezed her hand a little. "Your hands
are soft. Maybe that's part of the trouble, Phyl."

"I think I know what you mean. There are jobs for me, but--"

"--not jobs for your wit or your wits."

"I see. I think I can--get there, Jerry."

"I know you can. Good-by, Phyllis."

"Good-by, Jeremy."

There is one job which centuries of human progress has not done away
with. No one has developed a self-washing window. When one of mankind's
monuments to himself reaches a thousand feet into the air, and its
windows must be washed, that washing is a job for a rare type of human.
He must be strong, steady, and brave. He must live, away from his job,
in ways which do not unfit him for it.

Jeremy was glad when he heard Phyllis was doing this work. He knew then
what he had always guessed--that some day she would "get there." He
knew it in his heart.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MEMORY ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
